README.md, before:

# Exin AI Foundation Materials

This repository contains useful information and links for the Exin AI Foundations 
exam.

## Required literature

| Title                                                                                                                       | Author                                             | Source                           |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Human + Machine - Reimagining Work in the Age of AI                                                                         | Paul R. Daugherty and H. James Wilson              | ISBN: 1633693869                 |
| Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy AI                                                                                        | High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence | Freely available online          |
| Artificial Intelligence, A Modern Approach (3rd edition)                                                                    | Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig                    | ISBN: 9781292153964 (paperback)  |
| Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to Build Intelligent Systems    | Aurélien Géron                                     | ISBN: 1491962291                 |
| The Singularity is Near                                                                                                     | Ray Kurzweil                                       | ISBN: 9780715635612              |
| The Fourth Industrial Revolution                                                                                            | Klaus Schwab                                       | ISBN: 9780241300756              | 

## Materials from class


### Articles

- [What is an ontology?](https://medium.com/seek-blog/ontology-whats-that-17679130aa69)

### Videos 

- [OpenAI Hide & Seek](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lu56xVlZ40M): Video about research done by OpenAI on multi-agent systems that play hide and seek.
- [Chappie snippet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=At_C4jfxEg0): Clip from a movie (Chappie, 2015) where a police droid is stolen and trained by criminals.
The movie actually gets a lot of things right about learning from experience and how data influences AI behaviour.
- [Racist robot Tay (Microsoft)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lr4yi9onykg)

## Further study

## Materials suggested by Exin

| Title                                                                    | Author                                  | Source                                                             |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Linear Algebra and Learning from Data                                    | G. Gilbert Strang                       | ISBN: 9780692196380                                                |
| An Introduction to Linear Algebra                                        | H. Gilbert Strang                       | ISBN: 9780980232776                                                |
| Novacene: The Coming of Age of Hyperintelligence                         | James Lovelock                          | ISBN: 9780241399361                                                |
| The Mystery of Consciousness                                             | John R. Searle                          | ISBN: 9780940322066                                                |
| Machine Learning                                                         | The Royal Society                       | https://royalsociety.org/news-resources/projects/machine-learning/ |
| Machine Learning                                                         | Tom Mitchell                            | ISBN: 9780071154673                                                |
| Life 3.0                                                                 | Max Tegmark                             | ISBN: 9780141981802                                                |
| The Conscious Mind                                                       | David Chalmers                          | ISBN: 9780195117899                                                |
| Sustainable Energy – without hot air                                     | Sir David JC Mackay                     | ISBN: 978190686001                                                 |
| How Bad are Bananas? – The Carbon Footprint of Everything                | Mike Berners-Lee                        | ISBN: 9781846688911                                                |
| Machine Learning – A Probabilistic Perspective                           | Kevin P. Murphy                         | ISBN: 0262018020                                                   |
| Automated Planning Theory and Practice                                   | Malik Ghallab, Dana Nau, Paolo Traverso | ISBN: 1558608567                                                   |
| The Cambridge Handbook of Artificial Intelligence                        | Keith Frankish, William Ramsey          | ISBN: 9780521691918                                                |
| Artificial Intelligence: 101 Things You Must Know Today About Our Future | Lasse Rouhiainen                        | ISBN: 1982048808                                                   |


### Articles

- [Eigenfaces & facial recognition](https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eigenface)
- [AI Timeline (with infographic)](https://digitalwellbeing.org/artificial-intelligence-timeline-infographic-from-eliza-to-tay-and-beyond/)
- [Explaining neural networks through mathematical modeling (released 12-03-2024)](https://phys.org/news/2024-03-neural-networks-mathematical-formula-relevant.html)

### Books

The following two links go to a GitHub repository maintained by the Ebook Foundation, containing many free programming books.
You can search by language or by topic. Note that some subtopics of Artificial Intelligence have been linked as separate topics (Machine Learning, 
for example, is separated from the Artificial Intelligence header. 
- [List of free programming books by topic](https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books/blob/main/books/free-programming-books-subjects.md#artificial-intelligence)
- [List of free programming books by programming language](https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books/blob/main/books/free-programming-books-langs.md)

Relevant & fun books
- [Python Data Science Handbook (free with account)](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/python-data-science/9781491912126/)
- [Machine Learning for Hackers (R, free with account)](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/machine-learning-for/9781449330514/)
- [Mathematics for Machine Learning](https://mml-book.github.io/)
- [Data Science with R (2nd edition, free online edition)](https://r4ds.hadley.nz/)

### Datasets & Visualization

- [Kaggle Datasets](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets): Datasets to experiment with, very useful for exploring machine learning.
- [Draw a dataset with data.xyz](https://www.data.xyz)
- [Visualize different charts from CSV online](https://app.rawgraphs.io/)

### Libraries

The following list contains some interesting libraries to explore in Python:
- NumPy (Numerical Python)
- Pandas (data analysis)
- [VaderSentiment](https://vadersentiment.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (sentiment analysis)
- [Matplotlib/Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/introduction.html) (data visualization, seaborn is an extension of matplotlib)

#### Machine Learning

- Sklearn (ML toolkit) (used for the ML demos)
- [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)
- [Keras](https://keras.io/)
- [Pytorch](https://pytorch.org/)

### Online courses

- [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/learn): Kaggle is a large organisation that offers plenty of materials and datasets to learn about AI. 
They also offer their own courses, including reading material and interactive Python-notebooks to explore Data Science & AI-related concepts.
- [KhanAcademy (math)](https://www.khanacademy.org/math): A lot of techniques in AI are based on math. If you would like to explore AI more,
there are plenty of useful courses on KhanAcademy to help you brush up on all the relevant math.
- [KhanAcademy (cryptography)](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/cryptography/crypt/v/intro-to-cryptography): Extra topic, provides more 
information about ancient cryptography and how Alan Turing was involved in eventually cracking the enigma code.

### Videos

- [The danger of AI is weirder than you think (Ted Talk by Janelle Shane)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OhCzX0iLnOc): A TED talk 
by a wonderful lady who specializes in weird AI behaviour. She also has a [blog](https://www.aiweirdness.com/)!
- [Code Bullet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g39AagVW0s0): YouTuber who does silly hobby projects with AI. A great way to get motivated
for your own personal projects.

## Contact

- E-mail/teams: selina.blijleven@code-cafe.nl
- Discord: @linaanna

Commit message:

Added disclaimer on exin materials

README.md, after:

# Exin AI Foundation Materials

This repository contains useful information and links for the Exin AI Foundations 
exam. Any reuploads of Exin material are password protected and not for public use.

## Required literature

| Title                                                                                                                       | Author                                             | Source                           |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Human + Machine - Reimagining Work in the Age of AI                                                                         | Paul R. Daugherty and H. James Wilson              | ISBN: 1633693869                 |
| Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy AI                                                                                        | High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence | Freely available online          |
| Artificial Intelligence, A Modern Approach (3rd edition)                                                                    | Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig                    | ISBN: 9781292153964 (paperback)  |
| Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to Build Intelligent Systems    | Aurélien Géron                                     | ISBN: 1491962291                 |
| The Singularity is Near                                                                                                     | Ray Kurzweil                                       | ISBN: 9780715635612              |
| The Fourth Industrial Revolution                                                                                            | Klaus Schwab                                       | ISBN: 9780241300756              | 

## Materials from class


### Articles

- [What is an ontology?](https://medium.com/seek-blog/ontology-whats-that-17679130aa69)

### Videos 

- [OpenAI Hide & Seek](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lu56xVlZ40M): Video about research done by OpenAI on multi-agent systems that play hide and seek.
- [Chappie snippet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=At_C4jfxEg0): Clip from a movie (Chappie, 2015) where a police droid is stolen and trained by criminals.
The movie actually gets a lot of things right about learning from experience and how data influences AI behaviour.
- [Racist robot Tay (Microsoft)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lr4yi9onykg)

## Further study

## Materials suggested by Exin

| Title                                                                    | Author                                  | Source                                                             |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Linear Algebra and Learning from Data                                    | G. Gilbert Strang                       | ISBN: 9780692196380                                                |
| An Introduction to Linear Algebra                                        | H. Gilbert Strang                       | ISBN: 9780980232776                                                |
| Novacene: The Coming of Age of Hyperintelligence                         | James Lovelock                          | ISBN: 9780241399361                                                |
| The Mystery of Consciousness                                             | John R. Searle                          | ISBN: 9780940322066                                                |
| Machine Learning                                                         | The Royal Society                       | https://royalsociety.org/news-resources/projects/machine-learning/ |
| Machine Learning                                                         | Tom Mitchell                            | ISBN: 9780071154673                                                |
| Life 3.0                                                                 | Max Tegmark                             | ISBN: 9780141981802                                                |
| The Conscious Mind                                                       | David Chalmers                          | ISBN: 9780195117899                                                |
| Sustainable Energy – without hot air                                     | Sir David JC Mackay                     | ISBN: 978190686001                                                 |
| How Bad are Bananas? – The Carbon Footprint of Everything                | Mike Berners-Lee                        | ISBN: 9781846688911                                                |
| Machine Learning – A Probabilistic Perspective                           | Kevin P. Murphy                         | ISBN: 0262018020                                                   |
| Automated Planning Theory and Practice                                   | Malik Ghallab, Dana Nau, Paolo Traverso | ISBN: 1558608567                                                   |
| The Cambridge Handbook of Artificial Intelligence                        | Keith Frankish, William Ramsey          | ISBN: 9780521691918                                                |
| Artificial Intelligence: 101 Things You Must Know Today About Our Future | Lasse Rouhiainen                        | ISBN: 1982048808                                                   |


### Articles

- [Eigenfaces & facial recognition](https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eigenface)
- [AI Timeline (with infographic)](https://digitalwellbeing.org/artificial-intelligence-timeline-infographic-from-eliza-to-tay-and-beyond/)
- [Explaining neural networks through mathematical modeling (released 12-03-2024)](https://phys.org/news/2024-03-neural-networks-mathematical-formula-relevant.html)

### Books

The following two links go to a GitHub repository maintained by the Ebook Foundation, containing many free programming books.
You can search by language or by topic. Note that some subtopics of Artificial Intelligence have been linked as separate topics (Machine Learning, 
for example, is separated from the Artificial Intelligence header. 
- [List of free programming books by topic](https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books/blob/main/books/free-programming-books-subjects.md#artificial-intelligence)
- [List of free programming books by programming language](https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books/blob/main/books/free-programming-books-langs.md)

Relevant & fun books
- [Python Data Science Handbook (free with account)](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/python-data-science/9781491912126/)
- [Machine Learning for Hackers (R, free with account)](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/machine-learning-for/9781449330514/)
- [Mathematics for Machine Learning](https://mml-book.github.io/)
- [Data Science with R (2nd edition, free online edition)](https://r4ds.hadley.nz/)

### Datasets & Visualization

- [Kaggle Datasets](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets): Datasets to experiment with, very useful for exploring machine learning.
- [Draw a dataset with data.xyz](https://www.data.xyz)
- [Visualize different charts from CSV online](https://app.rawgraphs.io/)

### Libraries

The following list contains some interesting libraries to explore in Python:
- NumPy (Numerical Python)
- Pandas (data analysis)
- [VaderSentiment](https://vadersentiment.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (sentiment analysis)
- [Matplotlib/Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/introduction.html) (data visualization, seaborn is an extension of matplotlib)

#### Machine Learning

- Sklearn (ML toolkit) (used for the ML demos)
- [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)
- [Keras](https://keras.io/)
- [Pytorch](https://pytorch.org/)

### Online courses

- [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/learn): Kaggle is a large organisation that offers plenty of materials and datasets to learn about AI. 
They also offer their own courses, including reading material and interactive Python-notebooks to explore Data Science & AI-related concepts.
- [KhanAcademy (math)](https://www.khanacademy.org/math): A lot of techniques in AI are based on math. If you would like to explore AI more,
there are plenty of useful courses on KhanAcademy to help you brush up on all the relevant math.
- [KhanAcademy (cryptography)](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/cryptography/crypt/v/intro-to-cryptography): Extra topic, provides more 
information about ancient cryptography and how Alan Turing was involved in eventually cracking the enigma code.

### Videos

- [The danger of AI is weirder than you think (Ted Talk by Janelle Shane)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OhCzX0iLnOc): A TED talk 
by a wonderful lady who specializes in weird AI behaviour. She also has a [blog](https://www.aiweirdness.com/)!
- [Code Bullet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g39AagVW0s0): YouTuber who does silly hobby projects with AI. A great way to get motivated
for your own personal projects.

## Contact

- E-mail/teams: selina.blijleven@code-cafe.nl
- Discord: @linaanna
